Health insurance claim of ₹ lakhs rejected
and the reason given was non-disclosure of
fact misrepresentation of fact.
In our country, 95% of health insurance
claims are rejected only because of this clause -
non-disclosure of fact misrepresentation
of fact, that is, the insured has
not declared his illness while purchasing the health insurance policy, that is,
he has not declared his pre-existing condition and the
insurance company rejects the claim using this clause
and out of these 95%
people, 90% people do
not even know that
while purchasing the health insurance policy,
declaring his past illness or past surgery
is as important as purchasing that health
insurance policy. Many times, the
insured unintentionally does
not declare his illness or
forgets to declare it. Many times, the agent deliberately
hides that illness for his personal
interest. In such a situation,
whenever the insurance company
insures to take an insurance claim,  It is said that by using this clause the
insurance company rejects that claim.
Now what to do in this situation, so
in today's video I will tell you that if
you have purchased a health insurance policy
and you have not declared any of your diseases in
it, you have
forgotten to declare it or your agent has
hidden that disease, then what should you do in such a situation
so that
your claim is not rejected when you go to the hospital, then stay tuned
to this video of mine till the end, if you have
not yet subscribed to the insurance service, then
subscribe to it now
and press the bell icon so that you keep
getting notifications of all my videos, the
topic of this video is the most
important topic, it is an important topic for everyone,
so you must share this video with your
friends and relatives,
if you have just purchased a health
insurance policy and
after purchasing it you remember that you have
forgotten to declare your old disease
or you have undergone any surgery in the past and have
forgotten to declare it or
any history of any family member  If
you have forgotten to declare any disease or
your agent has not declared it, then
what should you do in such a situation
because if you do this and continue with this policy, then
whatever is the objective of taking a health insurance policy will never be
fulfilled
because whenever you go to the hospital to
get a claim, the insurance company will reject that claim
because your doctor is going to
mention that disease in your past history and at that time that
hospitalization will be very heavy on your pocket and will make you
spend your entire life's earnings, on
one hand you paid a
good premium by purchasing a health insurance policy
and on the other hand, when you went to the hospital, you did
not get any benefit of that health insurance policy and your entire life's
earnings were spent on that hospitalization,
now what should we do in such a situation, stay
tuned to my video till the end, every
health insurance company has a facility
that after purchasing the policy, you can declare
your pre-exiting disease which you have
forgotten to declare, any past
surgery or any past history of any family member.  You
can declare it even after the policy is issued. Suppose,
for example, you have diabetes, hypertension,
or have undergone a surgery, and you did
not declare this disease at the time of policy purchase, then in such a situation,
you can
declare your illness to the insurance company after the policy is issued.
If you already have any
illness like diabetes, hypertension, or
any family member has any medical history or has undergone a
surgery and you
forgot to declare it in the policy, then the
best way is to declare that illness by
informing the insurance company after the policy is issued. It is
possible
that after declaring, the insurance company may
change the terms and conditions of the policy. They may
also demand an additional premium from you and may also
apply a waiting period for that illness. So,
whatever terms and conditions the insurance
company imposes on that policy, you have to
accept them. If they
demand an additional premium or loading,
you should accept it.
Otherwise,
if you continue a policy without declaring it, then it is of
no use, it has
no benefit because whenever you
go to the hospital, the insurance company will
reject your claim.
In many conditions, there are many diseases in
which the insurance policy does
not provide you the policy, such as
critical illness, cancer, heart disease,
kidney disease, liver disease,
lung disease, brain tumor, etc. If you have
any of these diseases and
you have purchased the policy without declaring it and
later you declare that disease to the insurance company, then it is
possible
that the insurance company may cancel your policy,
terminate the policy
permanently and may
not even refund your premium. Many
companies may
refund your premium in proportion,
but still, there is
no benefit in continuing that policy, it is of
no use because whenever there is hospitalization, the
insurance company will reject that claim.
Because your doctor is going to
mention that disease in your past history, it
is necessary to declare the policy at the time of purchasing the insurance policy and if you forget at that time then
declare it later. All insurance
companies have a mail ID for customer care.
If I talk about Grava Kiva Bappa, then
Kiva Bappa has a specific
link by going to which you can
declare your disease after your post tissue ans.
After entering your policy number and verifying it with OTP, you
can declare your disease along with the
medical report, that is,
you have some tests related to that disease or some of your
prescriptions or any
discharge summary of hospitalization, you can upload them.
If we talk about
hdfcfund.com, I take regular tablets or medicines, have
undergone surgery, along with this I
have medical reports,
attach all that and mail it to the insurance company.
After that the insurance company will
revert you with revised terms and conditions
or will demand an additional premium
which you have to accept.  Similarly,
within ACC Lord too, you
can declare your PD by mailing to so@icicilombard.com. If
we talk about Care, they also have a link,
they also have a mail ID. Star Health
also has a mail ID so@starhealth.in, by
mailing to which you can declare your pet.
And
even after declaring the pet, you have to ensure that your pet should be mentioned in the
revised policy that has come to you,
its waiting period should be mentioned and should be properly
mentioned. If you have three
pets, then it is mandatory to mention the names of all three pets
in your policy
because suppose if you have two policies,
two of your diseases are mentioned in one policy and
one disease is not mentioned, then
also there can be a huge consequence at the
time of your claim. So,
while taking the policy and while reading the policy document,
you have to ensure that your PD
is completely declared with the name in that policy.  It is declared with a waiting period
and if the insurance company has levied
loading charges like on BP, sugar
and apart from that,
if you buy a policy with high cholesterol, obesity or asthma, then
in many companies, by taking additional premium, that insured disease is
covered from day one, so it is also
important to ensure that this disease is
covered from day one as per your policy
wording and it will be mandatory to mention the name of these diseases in your PD.
Fox, the most important thing on this topic
which I will definitely tell you is that if you have
purchased a health insurance policy, you
already have a critical illness
like cancer, a disease like heart, kidney link
and you have purchased a policy for the entire family without declaring it, then the
best
way is to inform the insurance company
and if the insurance company
terminates or cancels your policy, then
you should request them to continue the
policy of all the remaining insureds and those who have a
past history of PD  If you have a
critical illness, exit it from this policy.
Also, if your policy is
nearing renewal and then you
realize that you have forgotten to declare your old illness, then another
good way is to port it to another company
with complete declaration.
If they accept your policy, then continue it.
Otherwise, they will definitely
give the policy to the rest of the family members
after giving a counter offer.
This is the most important topic of health insurance policy. The most important
clause is non-
disclosure of fact, misrepresentation of
fact because this clause is such a clause
which can get your claim immediately rejected and can
also get your policy terminated.
Whatever questions or queries you have related to this clause or this video,
please ask me
in the comment box, by calling me or by mail. I will meet
you in my next video, till then
Jai Hind Jai Bharat.